# Changes in this branch

## Excalq's changes
 __Important:__ These changes were made in Feb-April 2011. These issues may have been fixed in other forks since then...

### Functional Changes:
1. Added the ability to generate a set of form fields USING DIVS instead of tables!!! Yippie!
2. Added a "Description" field type, which generates user content wrapped in a span of class "phorm\_descr" among a set of form fields.
3. Added Description text option for prepending directly to individual form fields. This is printed ahead of the field HTML. 
4. Added features for muti-field text fields, where foo[] is used in the name= attibute. Used for generating a PHP array out of a set of fields.
5. Bugfix: Checkboxes/Radios are validated with the "checked" instead of "value" attribute
	Bugfix in FileUpload::get_file() for call to Phorm_Type_File
6. Validation now handles a default of "-- select --" value in select menus (is considered a non-selection).
### Big Checkbox/Radio Button Improvements:
7. Added checkbox validation. Note that Phorm_Field_MultipleChoice can't handle checkboxes/radio validation - Instead use the 'required" option for those, as the app enforces a choice made for a muti-choice group of checkboxes/radios. This fixed a bug where Phorm_Field_MultipleChoice couldn't gracefully handle this condition, it now exempts itself gracefully.
8. Refactored Phorm_Widget_OptionGroup::serialize() to repopulate checkbox/radio values on page reloads (such as during error validation)
Phorm_Field_MultipleChoice was not gracefully handling checkboxes/radio validaiton. Note that validation for this assumes an array of choices - this only works for select menus. 'Required' still enforces a choice made for a muti-choice group of checkboxes/radios.

... I think that's it, this needs more review, and to be merged with more modern versions of jordanlev/phorms.

---------------------------------------
## More changes from jordanlev
(TODO: Get these from jordanlev/phorms)

## petsagouris's changes
### Functional Changes:
* Removed client side validation to keep this library focused on PHP (not javascript)
* Added Alpha/Alphanumeric field type
* Added OptionGroup (multi-select checkbox) field type

### Non-Functional Changes:
* Made sure the examples (in the examples folder) were working as expected and that the code was clean.
* Note that the original branch developer has been contacted but has not responded -- this branch should probably be considered the most active.

## jordanlev's changes
### Functional Changes:
* Changed name of Phorm\_Field\_Numeric to Phorm\_Field\_Integer because that's what it is (numeric is misleading because php's is\_numeric() function checks for any kind of number, not just integers).
* Added $size parameter to Decimal and Integer field types instead of hard-coding "20".
* Simplified built-in 'required' validation (just add 'required' to any field's validation array) [Implementation Details: I removed the "Validation.class.php" file because it made no sense, and replaced it with a simple built-in function that is automatically called when is_valid() is called if the validation array contains 'required'].
* Changed default form method from 'get' to 'post' in the Phorm\_Phorm constuctor ('post' is a more common use case so it should be the default)
* Added a display\_errors() function that can be called on your phorm object to output a list of all field errors -- useful if you want to display all errors at the top of the page instead of inline with each feild.
* Added a new public fields() function to Phorm\_Phorm class so all field objects can be retrieved and looped through.
* Text and Integer fields now set HTML maxlength attribute based on $max\_length param (in addition to existing server-side validation check).
* Bugfix: The is\_valid() function in Field.class.php now works with instance callbacks as well as function names, to match documented behaviour.

### Non-Functional Changes:
* Added new designed\_form.php example to demonstrate how to use the class in your own templated / designed HTML form (as opposed to an auto-generated table), and to show off the new display\_errors() and fields() functions.
* Removed getIterator() function in Phorm/Phorm.class.php becaue it wasn't doing anything (class doesn't implement IteratorAggregate)
* Removed leftover debugging call to var\_dump() in Phorm/Field/Email.class.php
* Cleaned up some function comments in Phorm/Field.class.php
* Removed docs/ directory because it was autogenerated before I made all of these changes, so it was out of date (and I haven't re-generated it with phpDocumentor yet).
* Added constant for target directory to the file\_drop.php example
